YTID	ID	depID	Title	Author	Year	Journal	Volume	Issue	Pages	Abstract	URL	pdfLink	ReasonExclusion	Excluded	PdfRelativePath	PdfNameDOI	DOI
2015 - Norepinephrine transporter knock-out alters expression of the genes connected with antidepressant drugs action	1	28	Norepinephrine transporter knock-out alters expression of the genes connected with antidepressant drugs action	"J. Solich, M. Kolasa, M. Kusmider, A. Faron-Gorecka, P. Pabian, D. Zurawek, K. Szafran-Pilch and M. Dziedzicka-Wasylewska"	2015	Brain Res.	1594		284-292	"Norepinephrine transporter knock-out mice (NET-KO) exhibit depression-resistant phenotypes. They manifest significantly shorter immobility times in both the forced swim test and the tail suspension test. Moreover, biochemical studies have revealed the up-regulation of other monoamine transporters (dopamine and serotonin) in the brains of NET-KO mice, similar to the phenomenon observed after the chronic pharmacological blockade of norepinephrine transporter by desipramine in wild-type (WT) animals. NET-KO mice are also resistant to stress, as we demonstrated previously by measuring plasma corticosterone concentration. In the present study, we used a microdissection technique to separate target brain regions and the TaqMan Low Density Array approach to test the expression of a group of genes in the NET-KO mice compared with WT animals. A group of genes with altered expression were identified in four brain structures (frontal and cingulate cortices, dentate gyrus of hippocampus and basal-lateral amygdala) of NET-KO mice compared with WT mice. These genes are known to be altered by antidepressant drugs administration. The most interesting gene is Crh-bp, which modulates the activity of corticotrophin--releasing hormone (CRH) and several CRH-family members. Generally, genetic disturbances within noradrenergic neurons result in biological changes, such as in signal transduction and intercellular communication, and may be linked to changes in noradrenaline levels in the brains of NET-KO mice"	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25451113			FALSE	/2662936679/Solich-2015-Norepinephrine transporter knock-o.pdf		
2003 - Region-specific dysregulation of allopregnanolone brain content in the olfactory bulbectomized rat model of depression	2	38	Region-specific dysregulation of allopregnanolone brain content in the olfactory bulbectomized rat model of depression	"V. Uzunova, M. Ceci, C. Kohler, D. P. Uzunov and A. S. Wrynn"	2003	Brain Res.	976	1	1-Aug	"Allopregnanolone (ALLO) is one of the most potent positive endogenous allosteric modulators of the type A gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA(A)) receptors. While the robust anxiolytic profile of ALLO has been extensively characterized in rodents and its antidepressant-like effect was recently demonstrated in mice, there have been only few reports on alterations of brain ALLO levels in putative animal models of depression and anxiety. Removal of the olfactory bulbs of rats produces one of the most predictive animal models with which to screen for drugs with potential antidepressant activity following repeated treatment. We therefore investigated whether the olfactory bulbectomized (OB) rat model of depression may be associated with alterations of ALLO levels in whole brain tissue and in different brain regions. We determined ALLO levels in whole brain, amygdala, frontal cortex, hippocampus, and whole cerebral cortex of OB or sham-operated rats at 7, 14, or 28 days following bulbectomy or sham surgery. We observed a significant increase of whole brain ALLO content at 7 and 28 days post-surgery in the OB rats. At days 7 and 14 following olfactory bulb removal, ALLO levels were significantly decreased in amygdala and frontal cortex and significantly increased in whole cerebral cortex. In the hippocampus we observed only a tendency for decreased ALLO levels at day 14. Our data indicates a strong region-specific dysregulation of ALLO homeostasis in brains of OB rats which may contribute to the formation of the bulbectomy syndrome via a sustained reduction in physiological GABA-ergic tone in amygdala and frontal cortex"	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12763616			FALSE			
2006 - Chronobiological disturbances with hyperthermia and hypercortisolism induced by chronic mild stress in rats	3	65	Chronobiological disturbances with hyperthermia and hypercortisolism induced by chronic mild stress in rats	"K. Ushijima, T. Morikawa, H. To, S. Higuchi and S. Ohdo"	2006	Behav.Brain Res.	173	2	326-330	"The chronic mild stress (CMS) model has been established as a realistic model of depressive disorder as it simulates anhedonia. In the present study, the consumption of sucrose solution was decreased in the rats exposed to CMS, which coincided with many published studies. Since depression is a multifaceted disorder, and a number of symptoms may be present, including circadian rhythm disturbances, we attempted to find the chronobiological abnormalities in CMS rats. After 4-week of the stress procedure, the rhythmic pattern of rectal temperature in the CMS group was extinguished. In particular, the temperature in the CMS group in the light phase was significantly higher than that in the control group. The plasma corticosterone levels in the CMS group were remarkably increased in the light phase compared to the control group, but not in the dark phase. It was concluded that the CMS procedure caused the disturbance of circadian rhythms with hyperthermia and hypercortisolism"	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16904763			FALSE	/3880702989/Ushijima-2006-Chronobiological disturbances wi.pdf		
1992 - Genetic animal models of depression and ethanol preference provide support for cholinergic and serotonergic involvement in depression and alcoholism	4	70	Genetic animal models of depression and ethanol preference provide support for cholinergic and serotonergic involvement in depression and alcoholism	"D. H. Overstreet, A. H. Rezvani and D. S. Janowsky"	1992	Biol.Psychiatry	31	9	919-936	"The present article summarizes some comparative studies of the Fawn-Hooded (FH) rat, a potential animal model of ethanol preference, and the Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) rat, a potential animal model of depression. Both FH and FSL rats exhibit high degrees of immobility in the forced swim test and have difficulty learning a two-way active avoidance task. However, there were no differences between the FH and FSL rats in the elevated plus maze. Studies of ethanol preference indicated high rates of ethanol intake (greater than 4 g/kg) and preference (greater than 50%) in the FH rats, but low rates of ethanol intake (less than 1.1 g/kg) and preference (less than 20%) in FSL rats. It is concluded that the FSL rats exhibit behaviors consistent with their being an animal model of depression, whereas the FH rats exhibit features consistent with their being an animal model of both depression and alcoholism. Psychopharmacological challenges indicated that both FSL and FH rats were more sensitive to the hypothermic effects of oxotremorine, a muscarinic agonist. However, FSL rats were also more sensitive to serotonergic agonists, and some of the present results and other investigators have reported serotonergic subsensitivity in the FH rats. Thus, FSL rats exhibit both cholinergic and serotonergic supersensitivity, whereas FH rats exhibit cholinergic supersensitivity but normal or reduced serotonergic sensitivity. Progeny from a genetic cross between FH and FSL rats exhibit cholinergic supersensitivity and have high ethanol preference scores. These data are consistent with genetic models suggesting that ethanol preference may be influenced by dominant genes, whereas cholinergic sensitivity may be influenced by recessive genes"	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1386257			FALSE			
2008 - Chronic corticosterone injections induce a decrease of ATP levels and sustained activation of AMP-activated protein kinase in hippocampal tissues of male mice	5	92	Chronic corticosterone injections induce a decrease of ATP levels and sustained activation of AMP-activated protein kinase in hippocampal tissues of male mice	"Y. Zhao, J. Shen, H. Su, B. Li, D. Xing and L. Du"	2008	Brain Res.	1191		148-156	"Chronic corticosterone injections induce hippocampus tissue damage and depression-like behavior in rodent animals, the cause of which is not known. Nevertheless, increasing evidence shows that adenylate kinase (AK) and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) play a very important role in intracellular energy metabolism and are especially critical for neurons which are known to have very small energy reserves and narrow margin of safety between the energy that can be generated and the energy required for maximum activity. Abnormalities of AK or AMPK system have detrimental effects on neurons or brain function especially at times of increased activity. In this study, we investigated the effects of chronic corticosterone exposure on energy metabolism, as well as AK and AMPK in hippocampal tissues in male C57BL/6N mice. Our results show that chronic corticosterone injection induced depression-like behavior in male mice, significantly decreased the energy levels and caused a sustained increase of AMP:ATP ratio in hippocampal tissues. Interestingly, chronic corticosterone injections did not produce obvious effects on AK1 protein and mRNA levels, but caused a sustained activation of AMPK. The results indicate that sustained AMPK activation might be a mechanism by which chronic corticosterone treatment causes depression-like behavior in male mice"	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18164281			FALSE	/1599451875/Zhao-2008-Chronic corticosterone injections in.pdf		